# Overview

This chapter provides an overview of the three main pages of the [Urban Analyst
platform](https://urbananalyst.city):

- [Compare](https://urbananalyst.city/stats) comparing aggregate statistics for
  all cities; and
- [Map](https://urbananalyst.city/maps) showing interactive maps for each
  city;
- [Transform](https://urbananalyst.city/transform) for transforming any chosen
  city to become more like other cities.

## Compare

The [Compare page](https://urbananalyst.city/compare) is the first and main
page of Urban Analyst, enabling the properties of all UA cities to be compared.
A pull-down panel enables each variable or "layer" to be selected. The page
then displays a graphical representation of values of the chosen layer for all
cities. As in all UA pages, lower values are generally better than higher
values. The control panel includes an "Explain Layer" button which opens a text
panel explaining details of the chosen variable.

### Single and Paired Variables

The control panel of the [compare page](https://urbananalyst.city/compare)
includes an option to select "paired" variables. The resultant graphs then
display the strength of relationship between any chosen *pair* of variables.
For example, choosing social index and the nature index will display the
strength of relationship between access to natural spaces and social
disadvantage. Both of these variables are measured such that low values are
better than high values. A positive relationship between the two would then
mean that lower social disadvantage is coupled with better access to natural
spaces, while high social disadvantage is coupled with worse access to natural
spaces. Conversely, a negative relationship would indicate that higher social
disadvantage was coupled with better access to natural resources. Or, in the
words brought up by clicking the "Explain Layer" button, "Low values indicate
that good access to natural spaces is coupled with disadvantageous social
conditions."

## Map

The [Map page](https://urbananalyst.city/map) shows interactive maps for each
city, with values for all UA variables displayed in small polygons. These
polygons are defined by city-specific assessments of spatial disadvantage.
Berlin, for example, regularly measures a compound index of social disadvantage
aggregated into XX polygons. The map for Berlin uses these polygons provided by
the city to aggregate all measured variables. The variables are described in a
[subsequent chapter](./variables.md).

As in all UA measurements, lower values of all variables are generally better
than higher values. Colour scales on all maps thus generally display lower
values in brighter, yellow colours, while higher values are displayed in
darker, blue or violet colours. The control panel includes an "Explain Layer"
button which opens a text panel explaining details of the chosen variable.

## Transform
